Merchants accepting card payments benefit immensely from timely, detailed, accurate and insightful reports about their transactions, fees, taxes and other expenses. A secure, reliable, scalable and fault tolerant data pipeline needs to be established in order to realize this key business capability. My role in this multifaceted project included all aspects of the software development life cycle from gathering requirements to writing user stories, preparing and validating data models, writing code in a variety of languages including Java, Scala, Python, HCL, Groovy and Bash. My most important work involved two general areas of the SDLC. The first  is working with the business/product teams to analyze customer needs and help prepare a technology roadmap to enable new features and deliver existing features using newer, more scalable and fault-tolerant technology. The other focused primarily on  helping design, build, test and maintain a variety of build pipelines for automatic deployments of code and infrastructure to multiple environments.
 
Roles and Responsibilities
Big Data DevOps Lead
Responsible for setting up, configuring, testing and deploying a variety of build, CI/CD and deploy pipelines for application and infrastructure artifacts in multiple environments across private and public clouds.
Fastidious emphasis on functionality, performance, scalability, fault tolerance and elegance in all aspects of software/pipeline design, implementation and maintenance.
Wrote and tested Terraform modules to create a variety of SaaS AWS services including Kinesis Firehose Delivery Streams, Athena workgroups, Redshift clusters with AWS KMS keys and associated bucket access policies.
Prepared, tested and maintained Groovy/Bash scripts and Jenkinsfiles to enable deployments in a selectable environment with all the related configurations and pipeline steps.
Collaborated with the information security team to adapt and implement over a hundred firm-wide control policies and procedures necessary for promoting our application to production including at-rest and in-flight encryption, data lineage, logging/monitoring/metrics platform onboarding, load testing, vulnerability scanning and certification among other pre-production requirements.
Wrote and tested envelopment encryption and decryption and re-encryption code in Java to move customer event data from the on-premises Kafka cluster to Amazon S3 buckets via Kinesis Firehose Delivery Streams setup for each event.
Helped create pipelines to import existing AWS resources into Terraform state files using Terraforming. 
Conducted and led working sessions to figure out solutions to a variety of business and technical problems.
Prepared and validated Avro schema collections for merchant, payment, fund, dispute, chargeback, refund, fees and deposit events.
Designed, architected and implemented an end-to-end solution to move merchant transaction data from Oracle to AWS S3 through a Hortonworks Data Lake.
Participated in and led various scrum ceremonies including Backlog Refinement, Planning, Showcase, daily standup and Sprint retrospective meetings.
Helped implement many process and organizational changes based on team feedback from retrospectives.
Designed, tested, implemented and productionized a variety of deployment pipelines integrating infrastructure and application code, artifacts and resources.
Onboarded the cloud ingestion application to Cloudfoundry with logging, monitoring, metrics, alerting and auditing platforms and services.
Worked with the product team to isolate use cases based on available datasets to determine the appropriate keyspace and table layout in Apache Cassandra. These included transaction and funding analytics.
Created Cassandra keyspaces and tables with the optimal partition key for the required query patterns. Ran performance tests with a variety of sample sizes and query filters.
Completed change management training and planned and executed production deployments using a variety of methods for different situations(ITSM).
Worked with data modelers and data architects to validate and approve a variety of Avro/SQL/HiveQL/SparkSQL schemas with simple to complex and user defined types and created a comprehensive Bitbucket repository and corresponding Confluence pages for future reference and user onboarding.
Setup and configured Cloudfoundry organizations and spaces for a variety of production and non-production environments to deploy the customer event ingestion application.
Created, managed and maintained Cloudfoundry manifest files for a number of applications.
Wrote Spring Kafka beans to incorporate custom configurations not directly available via Java annotations.
Developed and tested a Spring Kafka based transactional producer for payment events using the kafkaTemplate API. 
Configured the manual commit mode in Spring Kafka to accommodate downstream processing in Spring Kafka consumer applications.
Implemented and tested Kafka Consumer rebalance listeners to store offsets externally for applications cannot process duplicate records using Spring Kafka.
Implemented non-blocking producers and consumers using futures and callbacks to handle success and failure events in multiple Spring Kafka applications.
Instrumented Spring Kafka based producers and consumers with Micrometer to record a variety of performance metrics and helped identify bottlenecks. 
Prepared and tested liveness and readiness probes for ~30 customer events to monitor availability and functional health of the application fleet on Pivotal CloudFoundry.
Participated in code and configuration reviews with the team to refine the application design, resolve merge conflicts and improve  overall team velocity in a sustainable manner.
Completed Network Manager training and created a number of firewall exceptions for data access and transit between multiple public and private clouds for various use cases.
Business Analyst and Data Steward
Worked with the product owners to identify, refine and document a variety of use cases from existing data sources.
Analyzed Oracle stored procedures for ~40 different customer events and isolated all fields with business descriptions and documented all computations performed in the stored procedures.
Identified and documented gaps in data and logic in the stored procedures for analysis and implementation.
Wrote Python scripts to filter, clean and format data, identify missing records, deduplicate data and prepare it for ingestion into the various stages of the data lake pipeline.
Leveraged Python’s urllib3 library to scrape data from multiple REST endpoints to enrich the data lake pipeline. 
Collaborated with multiple development teams in the organization to identify and capture inter team dependencies in JIRA and helped inform sprint and PI planning discussions. 
 Identified and collated data definitions from various internal and external tools such as Collibra, Data Fact Registry and other metadata repositories to understand end to end data transformations and identify and capture associated business logic.
Translated data described in business use-cases into functional useful SQL and Avro schemas to enable determination of all necessary fields to compute the final events.
Adopted and implemented scalable, repeatable, secure, enterprise-grade pipelines for all code, infrastructure and data artifacts.
Keen focus on incremental innovation with an emphasis on functionality, performance and security at all times.
Helped prepare product roadmaps and prepared presentations for demos to senior product and technology leadership.
Participated in the internal ITSM training and certification to be able to participate in production deployments and manage systems and applications in production environments.
Worked on isolating data fields and designing API calls for extracting exchange rate data and joining with customer transaction data to enable transaction integrity use cases.
Created Python scripts to fetch exchange rate data from a REST API and ingest into an AWS S3 bucket.