Handling business data as a collection of evolving streams of distributed events yields a variety of benefits in the acquisition, processing, and refinement of valuable enterprise data assets. My role in this wide-ranging project included advising executive leadership regarding the vision, strategy and implementation of a stream first approach to moving data between a range of enterprise systems, participating in design boards, and informing cloud buildout strategy and implementing a Confluent Kafka based enterprise Stream Data Platform in AWS. My role also included developing sample Kafka Streams applications for near-realtime analytics use-cases and being an advocate within the enterprise for the benefits of an event driven approach for new initiatives in the developer community.

Roles and Responsibilities
Participated in, and contributed to design review board meetings and served as an SME for the Confluent technology stack and its critical role in enabling enterprise cloud adoption efforts and multiple real-time stream processing use-cases. 
Created a detailed presentations in Confluence that included cost estimates, developer effort, platform lifecycle(maintenance/upgrade/patch/user-support) costs and feature-set comparison for various Kafka deployment strategies in the cloud including Confluent Platform IaaS on AWS, Confluent Cloud and AWS MSK and conducted architectural reviews with senior executive leadership.
Responsible for planning all aspects of the cloud buildout of the Enterprise Data Highway including the core platform, logging, monitoring/alerting, security, auditing, user onboarding patterns, level of effort and timeline estimates, and potential risks given the current state of the platform/environment. Created detailed spreadsheets, planning documents and swim lane diagrams for review and feedback from enterprise architects, InfoSec, Legal and senior executive leadership.
Conducted reviews and working sessions with enterprise architects to highlight and document all the integration points for the new cloud based Data Highway, obtain of general understanding of the data flows and establish the processes and workflows to ensure a seamless, timely deployment of the Cloud Data Highway.
Led a war room to resolve multiple simultaneous production issues with Kafka producer/consumer applications to understand the root causes, develop and deploy solutions and to enable comprehensive alerting for all components of data pipeline using the Microsoft Office365 Graph API.
Prepared and published a process and workflow document for creating, updating and evolving schemas for enterprise data assets that emphasizes developer autonomy and also provides a lightweight process to get approvals from all the relevant stakeholders. 
Setup and configured a Kafka Connect cluster in all environments(Dev/Test/Prod) to host Confluent replicators using a Bamboo pipeline and Terraform.
Designed, architected and implemented a multi datacenter mirrored Schema Registry cluster for the hybrid Data Highway.
Created detailed authentication, authorization and data flow diagrams for each type of interaction with the components of the Confluent Platform for security reviews/assessments with the InfoSec team using draw.io in Confluence.
Helped onboard new developers, guided them through the various stages of application deployment, participated code and design reviews and provided general advice and mentorship. 
Participated in, and contributed to Agile meetings/ceremonies. Created and tracked all project work in JIRA portfolios. 
Designed, implemented, and configured a 2 CKU dedicated Confluent Cloud cluster in Dev/Test. and integrated AWS PrivateLink endpoints for both dedicated clusters to expose them to the Thrivent VPC using a Bamboo pipeline and Terraform.
Leveraged community and custom Terraform modules for declarative, repeatable, reliable infrastructure pipelines. 
Created ServiceNow change tickets and managed multiple production deployments ranging from simple configuration changes to whole platform provisioning.
Added and configured AWS EC2 instances to Ansible Tower and created configuration pipelines for operational tasks such as configuration changes, patches, and upgrades.
Designed and architected a disaster recovery strategy for the Cloud Data Highway with implementations based on replicators/offset-translation and cluster linking. 
Designed, developed and deployed multiple Spring Boot and Micronaut based Kafka Streams applications on Openshift Container Platform for a variety of use-cases including stream enrichment, windowed joins, filters and real-time notifications. 
Used the EmbeddedKafka feature in Spring Kafka to simulate a mock Kafka broker for unit and functional testing.